# Project Title <Centralising data for Luxembourg>

Short description (2–3 lines): The project employs a matrix evaluation to identify and address the key requirements related to the issue of ageing in Luxembourg. Its main objective is to gather and centralise official data within an interactive dashboard, serving as a reference tool for public debate and public knowledge. This tool is open source, and easily personnalisable by the author.


## 1) Quick start
- **Requirements:** R, Rstudio.
- **Setup (pick one):**
     – App/Script
Use R and Rstudio 
Install the package in the requirement file
Execute the script.R file.
Define the data path in the dasboard to link it to the source data generated by the script.
  ```

## 2) Problem & approach (≤ 10 lines)
Official statistics are often not well known in detail by non-experts. As a result, public debates and public opinion may rely on biased or inconsistent data to discuss certain topics, potentially overlooking existing STATEC data and reports.
Using a simple evaluation matrix, we identified the key requirements to enhance public understanding of the ageing population in Luxembourg, and its impacts on economy and society. Thix matrix enables the transparent selection of relevant indicators.
The outcome of this process is an interactive dashboard, developed entirely with open-source software and data, designed to centralise essentila information on this topic. The dashboard can be easily updated and customised by STATEC, ensuiring that it consistently provides a clear an concise presentation of the subject.
Furthermore, this apporach can be replicated for other topics and integrated directly into the official website.

## 3) Data
- STATEC - Population by canton and municipality, sex and age
https://lustat.statec.lu/vis?lc=en&pg=0&snb=1&df[ds]=ds-release&df[id]=DSD_CENSUS_GROUP1_3%40DF_B1607&df[ag]=LU1&df[vs]=1.0&dq=..A10.._T.................&pd=2021%2C2021&to[TIME_PERIOD]=false
- STATEC - Population by canton and municipality, country of birth and sex
https://lustat.statec.lu/vis?lc=en&pg=0&snb=1&df%5bds%5d=ds-release&df%5bid%5d=DSD_CENSUS_GROUP7_10%40DF_B1626&df%5bag%5d=LU1&df%5bvs%5d=1.0&dq=..A10._T..................&pd=2021%2C2021&to%5bTIME_PERIOD%5d=false
- EUROBASE - General government expenditure by function (COFOG)
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/gov_10a_exp/default/table?lang=fr
- EUROBASE - Population au 1er Janvier par âge, sexe
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/demo_pjangroup/default/table?lang=en
- EUROBASE - Population au 1er Janvier par âge, sexe et type de projection
https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/databrowser/view/proj_23np/default/table?lang=en
- data.public.lu - Evolution du nombre des pensions"résidents" et des pensions transférées par catégorie de pension (2010-2023)
https://data.public.lu/fr/datasets/series-statistiques-sur-les-pensions/#/resources/dd3f0107-80cc-4bf5-b297-0a8a739f18ef

## 4) Results & demo
- Evaluation_matrix.xlsx
- http://hackathonstatec.shinyapps.io/hackathon

## 5) Team & contacts
Artemis
- Kévin Alati, Data scientist: Kevin.Alati@artemis.lu
- Quentin Schmidt, Economist: Quentin.Schmidt@artemis.lu
- Mathieu Scheffer, Data scientist: Mathieu.Scheffer@artemis.lu
- Christophe Boutron, IT developer: Christophe.Boutron@artemis.lu
- Sandrine Herbeth, Project manager: Sandrine.Herbeth@artemis.lu

## 6) License
- See `LICENSE`. Use SPDX identifiers (e.g., EUPL-1.2, Apache-2.0, MIT).


